Markdown file for general documentation


--Exercise 1

-What does IoT entail
*IoT or Internet of Things describes a network of physical devices that are connected and communicate, either using a wireless connection like Bluetooth or Wifi or a normal cable.

-Domains
*Smart Homes
*Wearables
*Agriculture

-Protocols
*Message Queue Telemetry Protocol (MQTT): Lightweight publish/subscribe messaging transport good for devices with small code footprint and low bandwidth
*Hypertext Tranfer Protocol (HTTP): Protocol for transferring hypermedia documents like HTML, designed for communication between web browsers and web servers

-Devices
*Any device with the word "Smart" in it.
*Voice controllers like Amazon Alexa, Google Home Voice Controller, etc.
*Smart Locks: Unlocking when rfid in radius.
*Smartphones: Bascially a personal control panel that can communicate with most other iot devices.


--Exercise 2

*Questions
1. Why esp8266?
2. What inspired you in the video?
3. What is the connection to coffee?

*Answers
1. Programmability and price
1. Easily expandible

2. Bridging the world of software and hardware

3. 1st exposure was the esspresso light model
3. Price of a good coffee


2022/11/07 - connected to wifi gateway on raspberri pi using iotgateway img
Today we created a wifi hotspot using a rasberry pi. 
Hilariously, we did this by using a keyboard. Problems we encountered today was the fact that we forgot to download etcher to flash the SD card.
Furthermore, we had problems flashing the card. We could not initially get it working possibly because the SD card reader was broken. 
We solved this by using another SD card reader which allowed us to connect to our own created network.

------------------------------------------------------
2022/11/08 - Story V3 brainstorm idea
Aquaponics 

Personnel : 
Owner: Phil is a small business owner and owns an aquaponics unit in a rural area. 
Technician: Bob is a rookie technician and on his way to his first job. 
Criminal: James is an aspiring criminal and is well on his way to paying off his student loans by selling stolen fish.
Security: Carlos is a retired police officer and is currently working as a part-time security guard for Phil's aquaponics unit.

Facility IOT Devices : 
Motion Sensors - Scattered around the facility for movement detection.
Rfid tag scanner - Placed by the entrance to the facility and within the motion sensors around the facility. 
Smoke detector - Detects smoke and sends a notification to the owner that there is a fire or the possibly of one.
CO2 detector - constantly runs and monitors co2 levels through the facility and are placed in as many locations as possible and co2 levels can be monitored within the application in real time.

Bob gets to the aquaponics facility and scans his rfid tag.
The door unlocks. 
Phil gets a notification on his phone that the new technician has arrived at the aquaponics facility.
Both Phil and Bob receive a notifcation that the pump in tank two is malfunctioning.
The notification has data on waterflow levels for the past 2 hours and it seems waterflow has been degrading steadily.
Bob arrives and fixes the malfunction.
Bob adds a report on his application and posts it. 
Phil receives a notification that Bob has fixed the malfunctioning pump and sees the report that Bob made. 
Phil also receives a reccommendation on replacement pumps and common problems.
Bob walks around the facility and the rfid tag on his person pings his relative location to the motion Sensors around the fish tank area and other sections of the facility.
The Motion Sensor has a rfid scanner that identifies Bob as a technican based on the rfid tag he has on his person.
Bob continues monitoring all the aquaponics devices from his mobile phone whilst sipping an esspresso. 
Bob signs out via his rfid tag since it is now 5 o'clock and quitting time.
Phil receives a notification that Bob has left the facility.
Phil can see a detailed report of how many hours Bob has worked this week.
Phil can also see which problems Bob has solved so far.
As Bob leaves the facility the locks on the door as well as motion sensors activate.
After Bob has left, James sees his chance to break into the facility.
James tries to enter through the front door but finds that it is locked.
Next, James breaks a window and climbs through.
A motion sensor detects movement near tank five due to the rfid scanner not detecting any valid tag when movement was detected.
The motion sensor sends a notfication to Phil as well as Carlos.
Carlos receives the notfication and goes to investigate the disturbance.
Motion sensors update Carlos on the position of the disturbance at his request.
It seems that the disturbance has moved from tank five to tank four. 
Carlos deduces that the next disturbance will be at tank three.
Carlos catches James stealing fish from the tanks and detains him.
Carlos writes a report and submits it on the application.
Phil receives the notification that Carlos has detained a criminal.
Phil also receives the report that Carlos has submitted.



Personnel : 
Owner: Mara sells fresh vegetables and fish at markets, which come from her aquaponics unit in a rural area. 
Employee: Jon is a farmer and has been taking care of Mara's aquaponics unit since 5 years. He is also a chain smoker.
Technican: Paul is a young student who is currently working as a part-time technican for Mara's aquaponics unit.

Facility IOT Devices : 
Soil Moisture Sensor - Detects over-saturated patches of soil
Pump - Measures how much water flows into a tank
Flame sensor - Detects flames within the facility.  
Temp Metre - detect and regulate temperature in the facility
Motion Sensors - Scattered around the facility for movement detection.
Rfid tag scanner - Placed by the entrance to the facility and within the motion sensors around the facility. 
Weight sensor - To measure the weight of the fish in the tank.

Tuesday, 10.01.2022
Mara and Paul were awakened in the morning by a notification on their phone. The soil moistire sensor has detected that the plants don't have enough water. 
Paul gets to the aquaponics facility and scans his rfid tag.
The door unlocks and at the same time Mara gets a notification on her phone that Paul has arrived at the aquaponics facility.
Paul looks at his phone and sees that the pumps and the temp metre are working properly. 
Paul takes a closer look at the facility and discovers that a pipe is leaking, which means less water is getting to the plants. 
Paul repairs the pipe and adds a report on his application. 
Mara gets a notification that the problem with the soil moistire has been solved. 

Monday, 20.04.2022
Jon arrives at the aquaponics facility and scans his rfid tag.
Mara gets a notification that that Jon has arrived at the aquaponics facility.
Jon monitors all the aquaponics devices from his mobile phone while smoking a cigarette.  
After that Jon starts his farmwork by harvesting lettuce and tomatoes.  
While at work, Jon continues to smoke and be careless. He throws his cigarette on a pile of hay and fire starts. 
Mara gets an notification from the flame sensor that flames has been detected at the facility. 
At the same time an emergency call is sent to the fire department.
Mara checks the application and sees that the a motion sensor has detected a lot of movement in the facility, so she knows, that the firefighters have arrived. 
In the mean time the firefighters manages to extinguish the fire.  
Jon adds a report on the application that the fire has been put out. 
He also enters a command that he is very sorry about the incident and that luckily nothing was damaged.
Jon continues his farmwork without smoking any cigarettes anymore.
In the evening Mara is lying in her bed and takes a look at the reports which has been posted on the application.
Shaking her head, she falls asleep and wonders what is in store for her tomorrow.

Friday, 02.08.2022
Jon arrives at the aquaponics facility. 
Jon takes the fish out of the tank to prepare them for the market and puts in new young fish. 
Mara gets a notfication from the weight sensor, because the weight of the tank has changed drastically. 
Now she knows that Jon has prapered the fish for the market. 
At 5 o'clock Jon signs out via his rfid tag.
Mara receives a notification that Jon has left the facility.
 

Group work (Lena & Amadeo) => 9/11/2022
To get started, we started by creating a simple blink led component. We did this by guiding ourselves through the program via the Files => examples => basics => blink buttons. This opened a new window where by using the upload button we could install the provided hardware on one of our ESPs.
After this we moved on to installing a server so we could have it interact with a client at a later stage. To implement this server we used the following steps: file => examples => ESP8266WebServer => HelloServer. If we click the upload button after this, our piece of self-written software will be implemented on the ESP we currently have attached to our computer.
After we had implemented the server, we got to work on creating a client. We did this using the following steps File => examples => ESP8266WIFI => WIFI. We initialized in the setup method the input of the key pin as well as the output of the led pin. Then in the loop method we added code to check the state of the button so that the light could be adjusted depending on the current state.
problems we have overcome today:
-	We encountered many problems in the beginning for setting up the arduino application. The lecturer did this quite quickly without considering the students in the process.
-	Because we often did not fully understand what was expected of us in class, we needed a lot of feedback from the teacher to redirect us here and there and help us on our way to obtaining the solutions
